so I just recorded a video talking a
little bit about friedrich nietzsche and
the history of philosophy in the Western
world and the light motif of that video
really was questioning why do we think
of the progress of philosophy as if it
were the progress of science when in so
many ways
it's more like show business there is a
vegan activist Network network is the
word they use called direct action
everywhere and a most remarkable thing
has happened just within the last two
weeks they change their whole
methodology and they started uploading
videos to YouTube that are from my
perspective garbage content they started
uploading videos of cute cats and cute
piglets and cute cows one of the videos
is oh it's a cow cuddling with a kitten
there's another one that's a baby a baby
human cuddling with a piglet this kind
of crap alright now the unique claim of
DXE of direct action everywhere when
they came into the game here was that
their methods their form their their
ideology of effective activism was based
on science was the day alone
unlike other vegan groups animal rights
groups that they had learned the lessons
of the social sciences that so they
would put it now quite a few people have
questioned this or even ridiculed it the
long book review discussion I did with
mod vegan we mentioned in there that
Gary francais on a really ridicules
direct action everywhere and Gary
friendzone a really says look they say
what they're doing is based on science
when you look into the science it's not
even though these are the Social
Sciences and Gary Franchione is right
about that unfortunately the same
criticism also applies to Fran Sione
himself
there's a lot of that criticism to go
around but on some level you know
some questions can be answered by
science and some cannot what is
Shakespeare's greatest play if you're
hosting a Shakespearean festival and
you've got to choose which plays you're
going to perform and which ones are not
which play is going to reach an audience
which place is socially relevant and
meaningful to perform today it's not a
scientific question it's not going to
have a scientific answer and whether
you're talking about political activism
or lobbying or street protests I think
we actually get into a lot of questions
that are closer to the arts closer to
the creative arts maybe closer to
literature than they are to science and
yet you know direct action everywhere
they started off by claiming they had
this unique methodology that was so much
better than everyone else because it was
based on science and they felt that they
had drawn these objectively true and
real conclusions from their very
selective and one-sided study of history
completely cynical misrepresentation of
a few figures from history like Mohandas
Gandhi little bits and pieces of the
u.s. struggle to abolish slavery
misrepresented and cherry-picked and
what and we come up with this diss
methodology and anyway others have
already pointed out the use they made of
social science research is laughable if
you actually have a background in social
sciences which I do my first University
diploma is in political science and from
my perspective you know what starts as
science ends as religion from any of
these many of these political
organizations for direct action
everywhere if you want to be a part of
their little group that in some ways is
quite cult-like
you simply have to accept as a tenet of
faith that what they say is effective
activism is effective effective activism
ceases to be something empirical ceases
to be something you try out and test and
evaluate and tinker with in the real
world
it becomes a principle of faith that all
members of the group have to subscribe
to I don't even say that with any agent
of our but then you see this the other
you know aspect of direct action
everywhere that was discussed in my
earlier podcast over an hour long with
Maude vegan right off the bat I point
out look you know groups like direct
action everywhere they make all these
sacrifices to get their name into the
newspaper for them that's in reality the
main focus of their activism they do
outrageous things sometimes they do
criminal things sometimes they're facing
criminal charges for their protests for
their activism just to get their name in
the headlines just to get their name in
the newspaper and they feel they've had
a big success when their disruptions get
their name theirs because that's their
idea of effective activism are these
disruptions okay and now nobody wants to
hear it
they have no audience nobody wants to
hear what they have to say remarkably my
videos including my really boring videos
reach a larger audience than theirs on
YouTube even though they're doing things
that are in the newspaper where I say is
not being covered in the newspaper I'm
not going out and breaking into barns
I'm not running on to the sports field
and a baseball games right disrupt the
baseball game I'm not showing up at a
Bernie Sanders event and jumping the
fence that this is the stuff they do to
disrupt Bernie Sanders talking to the
crowd or whatever you know I find their
their methods totally immature and
totally reasonable and totally
ineffective but again if you join their
group it becomes a barrier to entry it
becomes a principle of faith you have to
believe that what they're doing is
effective right and you believe that
it's based on this ridiculous
interpretation of history and this
ridiculous selective reading of the
social sciences but of course it's not a
science of course what are you gonna say
to me are you what was your scientific
basis for believing that jumping over
the barrier to interrupt Bernie Sanders
and being immediately pounced on by his
security guards nobody heard the vegan
message that's more effective
than running a vegan hotdog stand you
could do a great form of actors you have
a vegan hotdog stand
you don't tell people it's vegan I
talked about this ages and ages ago in a
podcasting channel the hotdog stand or
hamburger stand give it a great name
call it dead cow
dead cow hamburgers you know and maybe
afterwards they eat the burger and in
the bottom of the container there's a
note saying hey just so you know no
animals were harmed in making this
burger a dead cow burger we're actually
proud to be giving you a vegan hamburger
the beautiful form of activism doesn't
disrupt anything so god I think there
were so many it's like I say it's the
creative arts I'm just I just wrote a
children's book in Chinese in English
I'm talking to illustrate its art its
literature not saying it's high art
whatever you know it's it's it's a
children's storybook getting those ideas
across and obviously you can come on
YouTube and make music videos you could
dance and sing you could do a puppet
show you know there are so many forms of
creative activism but no they think that
science proves that their method is the
effective one okay
well I think on some level I mean it's
just serendipity it's just a coincidence
at the same time that I had this
conversation with mod vegan drawing
attention to the fact that they knocked
themselves out they sometimes get
themselves brought into court there
sometimes facing criminal charges the
doing all this edgy stuff just to
promote themselves but despite all that
promotion despite my name the press I'm
looking at videos here that have had 89
views a hundred and seventy two views
169 views nobody wants to hear it nobody
respects their opinion nobody is
interested right and like some of these
videos remember the number of people
involved already gets you a certain
number of views so they have a bunch of
activists doing a disruption that's not
worth describing you know the friends
and family of the people who were in the
video that's already yes of maybe 300
people you know like if you have 20
people participating making a video each
of them posted on their own Facebook
page and send it to their parent
and there are friends from university
that already is 300 views 20 if 20
people make a video you should have 300
views and these guys are scraping
incredibly low numbers I did a book
review on rules for radicals nothing to
do with Venus I've got a thousand views
in like two or three days I'm deeply
grateful to my artists for that by the
way I respect the hell out of my
audience for watching that kind of video
just straight-up political science talk
about a meaningful book you know but
here's here's the twist just two weeks
ago direct action everywhere throw out
their own rulebook threw out their own
philosophy throw out all the lessons of
science and history and all this
[ __ ] about the abolition of slavery
and they start posting cute kitten
videos cute cow videos cute baby pig
videos is that what people signed up for
when they joined DXE was the arguments
supposed to be that the social sciences
proved that the way to advance veganism
is showing a baby playing with a piglet
on a fluffy pink carpet
are you [ __ ] kidding me this is what
all your intellectual pretensions boil
down to is that when you aren't getting
the attention you wanted by doing your
[ __ ] disruptions you resort to other
methods of getting attention doesn't
this just reveal that all that nonsense
about Mohandas Gandhi fighting against
the British Empire in India about the
American Civil War about the abolition
of slavery about social science research
vindicating this method you made up in
your own minds what it all boils down to
is you want attention and when you don't
get that attention that you're screaming
for literally screaming for filming
yourself screaming at strangers in a
restaurant this kind of nonsense well
you don't get it
you resort to cute
piglet videos cute kitten videos you
resort to the lowest common denominator
of what you see getting views on
Facebook direct action everywhere at
this point I've got to say shame on you
you guys came out and you did debates
with other people you debated Gary
France aione you've heard criticism but
you have failed to respond to that
criticism by actually improving what it
is you do and I'll just say in closing I
don't want to see you guys fail I think
you're wrong and misguided and what
you're doing is counterproductive but
you gotta remember I'm a vegan who wants
to make the world a better place I would
love to see anyone succeeding at this
game but my role is not to gas you up
kid
my role is not to pat you on the back
and say you're fighting the good fight
when you're fighting it all wrong okay
you're not gonna make the world a better
place sitting in a steel cage in a
prison cell
you're not getting that for that reason
you're not gonna make the world a better
place
breaking the law filming yourself
breaking the law and putting that video
on the internet where I come from that's
called dry snitching and you know I'm
not criticizing you for my sake but man
I think any of you guys in DXE if this
ever was a project that in principle was
open minded and empirical learning from
experience learning the lessons of
history learning the lessons the social
sciences why did you stop learning
because I think you can still turn this
around I think you could still improve
the organization you've already got but
you've got to stop what you're doing
learn from the experience you've already
had in the last three years learn the
lessons of your own experience if you
want to learn from the social sciences
go back to the drawing board
go back to history learned some new
lessons from history different what
you've done and take it in a new
direction it's a lot easier to reform a
bad institution than to start a new
institution from scratch nuff said